<!-- ---
layout: home
title: "Style guide - extended producer responsibility"
description: "This guide has been designed to complement the GOV.UK style guide, rather than to supersede it."
eleventyComputed:
  eleventyNavigation:
    key: home
    title: "{{ title }}"
--- -->

## A

### Accreditation

All initial teacher training providers must be ‘accredited’ by the Secretary of State for Education. This process of ‘accreditation’ confirms they have permission to offer courses leading to Qualified Teacher Status (QTS). (NB: Ofsted is the body which checks the courses providers offer meet the standards set by the department.)

The exception is the School Direct (SD) training route; SDs need a ‘ratifying accredited provider’. The ratifying accredited provider may be a School Centred Initial Teacher Training (SCITT) or a Higher Education Institute (HEI), and is responsible for maintaining the quality of the training provided.

As accredited bodies, SCITTs can offer QTS courses but do not have the power to award a degree. To enable candidates who seek an academic award like a PGCE (Post Graduate Certificate in Education) they need to partner with an HEI.

The relationship between accredited training providers and the institutions they ratify is complex. For example, we know that individual courses can be ratified by different accredited bodies (so a School Direct may work with both an HEI and more than one SCITT to ratify its courses).

### Allocation

Permission to run limited courses.

### Ancient languages

Used to describe teaching the study of languages no longer in widespread spoken usage, such as Latin or Ancient Greek. Prefer using the specific languages studied where possible.

## B

### Becoming a teacher (BAT)

An internal term used to describe all of the services related to the journey to become a teacher (sometimes referred to as a ‘service line’).